feat(DEV-345): Atmos Component Update Docs (#583)
cloudposse/atmos: website/docs/integrations/github-actions/component-updater.md

- [ ] Create and install a GitHub App, following [Using a GitHub App](#using-a-github-app)
- [ ] Allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests

1. Go to `https://github.com/organizations/YOUR_ORG/settings/actions`
2. Check "Allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests"

### Using a GitHub App

You may notice that we pass a generated token from a GitHub App to `github-access-token` instead of using the native `GITHUB_TOKEN`. We do this because Pull Requests will only trigger other GitHub Action Workflows if the Pull Request is created by a GitHub App or PAT. For reference, see [Triggering a workflow from a workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/triggering-a-workflow#triggering-a-workflow-from-a-workflow).

1. Create a new GitHub App
2. Name this new app whatever you prefer. For example, `Atmos Component Updater`.
3. List a Homepage URL of your choosing. This is required by GitHub, but you can use any URL. For example use our documentation page: `https://atmos.tools/integrations/github-actions/component-updater/`

> 4. (Optional) Add an icon for your new app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. (Optional) Add an icon for your new app (See below)
```

<details>
<summary>Feel free to download and use our Atmos icon with your GitHub App!</summary>

![App Icon](/img/github-actions/github-app.png)

</details>

5. Assign only the following Repository permissions:

```diff
+ Contents: Read and write
+ Pull Requests: Read and write
+ Metadata: Read-only
```

6. Generate a new private key [following the GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/authenticating-with-a-github-app/managing-private-keys-for-github-apps#generating-private-keys).

> 7. Finally, save both the App ID and the new private key as secrets for GitHub Actions with `ATMOS_APP_ID` and `ATMOS_PRIVATE_KEY` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Finally, save both the App ID and the new private key as secrets for GitHub Actions with `ATMOS_APP_ID` and `ATMOS_PRIVATE_KEY` respectively. Note, if using GitHub Enterprise, we recommend using "GitHub Environments" to scope Secrets to protected branches. If that's not available, use repository-scoped GitHub Secrets instead.
```

### Using GitHub Environments

We recommend creating a new GitHub environment for Atmos (requires GitHub Enterprise). With environments, the Atmos Component Updater workflow will be required to follow any branch protection rules before running or accessing the environment's secrets. Plus, GitHub natively organizes these Deployments separately in the GitHub UI.
To configure your environment, perform the following:
1. Open "Settings" for your repository
1. Navigate to "Environments"
1. Select "New environment"
1. Name the new environment, "`atmos`"
1. In the drop-down next to "Deployment branches and tags", select "Protected branches only"

> 1. In "Environment secrets", create the two required secrets for App ID and App Private Key from [Using a GitHub App](#using-a-github-app)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In "Environment secrets", create the two required secrets for App ID (` `ATMOS_APP_ID`) and App Private Key (`ATMOS_PRIVATE_KEY`) from [Using a GitHub App](#using-a-github-app) step.
```

> 1. In "Environment secrets", create the two required secrets for App ID (` `ATMOS_APP_ID`) and App Private Key (`ATMOS_PRIVATE_KEY`) from [Using a GitHub App](#using-a-github-app) step.

Author: ```suggestion
1. In "Environment secrets", create the two required secrets for App ID (`ATMOS_APP_ID`) and App Private Key (`ATMOS_PRIVATE_KEY`) from [Using a GitHub App](#using-a-github-app) step.
```

```diff
+ Contents: Read and write
+ Pull Requests: Read and write
+ Metadata: Read-only
```

### Using GitHub Environments

We recommend creating a new GitHub environment for Atmos. With environments, the Atmos Component Updater workflow will be required to follow any branch protection rules before running or accessing the environment's secrets. Plus, GitHub natively organizes these Deployments separately in the GitHub UI.

1. Open "Settings" for your repository
1. Navigate to "Environments"
1. Select "New environment"
1. Name the new environment, "atmos".
1. In the drop-down next to "Deployment branches and tags", select "Protected branches only"
1. In "Environment secrets", create the two required secrets for App ID and App Private Key from [Using a GitHub App](#using-a-github-app)

Now the Atmos Component Updater workflow will create a new Deployment environment on the next workflow run, easily accessible from the GitHub UI.

> ![Example Environment](/img/github-actions/github-deployment-environment.png)

Author: wait for https://github.com/cloudposse/infra-test/pull/670 to be merged and then will take a screenshot of deployments

        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 1

      # Install the Atmos Component Updater GitHub App:
      # https://github.com/apps/atmos-component-updater
      - name: Generate a token
        id: github-app
        uses: actions/create-github-app-token@v1
        with:
          app-id: ${{ secrets.ATMOS_APP_ID }}
          private-key: ${{ secrets.ATMOS_PRIVATE_KEY }}

      - name: Update Atmos Components
        uses: cloudposse/github-action-atmos-component-updater@v2
        env:
          # https://atmos.tools/cli/configuration/#environment-variables
          ATMOS_CLI_CONFIG_PATH: ${{ github.workspace }}/rootfs/usr/local/etc/atmos/
        with:
          github-access-token: ${{ steps.github-app.outputs.token }}
          log-level: INFO
          vendoring-enabled: true
          max-number-of-prs: 10

      - name: Delete abandoned update branches
        uses: phpdocker-io/github-actions-delete-abandoned-branches@v2
        with:
          github_token: ${{ steps.github-app.outputs.token }}
          last_commit_age_days: 0
          allowed_prefixes: "component-update/"
          dry_run: no
```

### Requirements

> This action will automatically suggest pull requests in your new repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This action will automatically open pull requests for updated components in your repository.
```

> To do so, we need to install a GitHub App and allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests within your GitHub Organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use it, we recommend installing a GitHub App to allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests within your GitHub Organization.
```

Reviewer: I don't believe it needs the approve permission

Reviewer: (we would use mergify for that, I think?)

Author: yeah that's true

Author: updating, one second

> For more on the Atmos Component Updater, see [atmos.tools](https://atmos.tools/integrations/github-actions/component-updater).

Reviewer: I don't understand, isn't that this page?

Author: oops. Should not have been copied over. Updating

- [ ] Install the Atmos Component Updater GitHub Action

1. Go to [https://github.com/apps/atmos-component-updater](https://github.com/apps/atmos-component-updater)
2. Install the Atmos Component Updater into your GitHub Organization
3. [Generate a new private key for this Github App installation](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/authenticating-with-a-github-app/managing-private-keys-for-github-apps#generating-private-keys)

> 4. Share both the App ID and the new private key with Cloud Posse in 1Password or set both as GitHub secrets. We will pull these secrets from GitHub Actions with `secrets.ATMOS_APP_ID` and `secrets.ATMOS_PRIVATE_KEY` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Share both the App ID and the new private key with Cloud Posse in 1Password or set both as GitHub secrets. We will pull these secrets from GitHub Actions with `secrets.ATMOS_APP_ID` and `secrets.ATMOS_PRIVATE_KEY` respectively.
```

This sounds like customer documentation and not public documentation

Author: corrected

- [ ] Allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests

> 1. Go to https://github.com/organizations/YOUR_ORG/settings/actions

Reviewer: Don't link to example (broken) URLs. This would fail linting.

```suggestion
1. Go to `https://github.com/organizations/YOUR_ORG/settings/actions
```

Author: added

2. Check "Allow GitHub Actions to create and approve pull requests"

### Using a GitHub App

> You may notice that we pass a generated token from a GitHub App to `github-access-token` instead of using the native `GITHUB_TOKEN`. We do this because Pull Requests will only trigger GitHub Workflows if the Pull Request is created by a GitHub App or PAT. For reference, see [Triggering a workflow from a workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/triggering-a-workflow#triggering-a-workflow-from-a-workflow).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may notice that we pass a generated token from a GitHub App to `github-access-token` instead of using the native `GITHUB_TOKEN`. We do this because Pull Requests will only trigger other GitHub Action Workflows if the Pull Request is created by a GitHub App or PAT. For reference, see [Triggering a workflow from a workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/triggering-a-workflow#triggering-a-workflow-from-a-workflow).
```

To set up a GitHub App for this integration, either install the Cloud Posse managed GitHub App or create an app yourself. Install the Cloud Posse managed app from [github.com/apps/atmos-component-updater](https://github.com/apps/atmos-component-updater). If you wish to instead create the GitHub App yourself, assign only the following Repository permissions:

```diff
+ Contents: Read and write
+ Pull Requests: Read and write
+ Metadata: Read-only
```

### Using GitHub Environments

> We recommend creating a new GitHub environment for Atmos. With environments, the Atmos Component Updater workflow will be required to follow any branch protection rules before running or accessing the environment's secrets. Plus, GitHub natively organizes these Deployments separately in the GitHub UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend creating a new GitHub environment for Atmos (requires GitHub Enterprise). With environments, the Atmos Component Updater workflow will be required to follow any branch protection rules before running or accessing the environment's secrets. Plus, GitHub natively organizes these Deployments separately in the GitHub UI.
```

> 
> 1. Open "Settings" for your repository
> 1. Navigate to "Environments"
> 1. Select "New environment"
> 1. Name the new environment, "atmos".
> 1. In the drop-down next to "Deployment branches and tags", select "Protected branches only"
> 1. In "Environment secrets", create the two required secrets for App ID and App Private Key from [Using a GitHub App](#using-a-github-app)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure your environment, perform the following:
1. Open "Settings" for your repository
1. Navigate to "Environments"
1. Select "New environment"
1. Name the new environment, "`atmos`"
1. In the drop-down next to "Deployment branches and tags", select "Protected branches only"
1. In "Environment secrets", create the two required secrets for App ID and App Private Key from [Using a GitHub App](#using-a-github-app)
```

> Now the Atmos Component Updater workflow will create a new Deployment environment on the next workflow run, easily accessible from the GitHub UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the Atmos Component Updater workflow will create a new Deployment in the `atmos` environment for each workflow run, easily accessible from the GitHub UI.
```
